# Animal species-classification: Integration of Deep-Learning and Species Distribution Models for Classification of Animal Species of the Brazilian Fauna

This project seeks to bring a combination between image classification models and species distribution models, focusing on the classification of animal species of the Brazilian fauna.

The automated classification of animals from photos is important in ecology and conservation biology for organizing and understanding the immense diversity of species, as well as facilitating effective conservation and management practices. It is equally important for disease surveillance systems, allowing prompt detection of anomalies in species distributions and boosting citizen-scientist platforms by making user-reported data more accurate and convenient. Image classification uses photos and can also rely on the geographical locations of animals to improve performance. While image classification models have difficulties in classifying low-quality images, unbalanced datasets, and with a small number of images, species distribution models have difficulty in classifying species that coexist in a given region. The present work presents an integration of image classification models based on deep neural networks with species distribution models. It is applied to a real-world dataset comprising fifteen classes of animals from the Brazilian fauna obtained from Fiocruz's citizen-scientist Wildlife Health Information System (SISS-Geo). The SISS-Geo photos portray the reality of animals in their environments, with varying quality, and pose numerous difficulties for classification.

